Webserv
This is when you finally understand why URLs start
with HTTP
Summary:
This project is about writing your own HTTP server.
You will be able to test it with an actual browser.
HTTP is one of the most widely used protocols on the internet.
Understanding its intricacies will be useful, even if you won't be working on a website.
Version: 22.1

Contents
I Introduction 2
II General rules 3
III Mandatory part 4
III.1 Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
III.2 For MacOS only . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
III.3 Configuration file . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
IV Bonus part 10
V Submission and peer-evaluation 11

Chapter I
Introduction
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application protocol for distributed,
collaborative, hypermedia information systems.
HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web, where hyper-
text documents include hyperlinks to other resources that the user can easily access. For
example, by clicking a mouse button or tapping the screen on a web browser.
HTTP was developed to support hypertext functionality and the growth of the World
Wide Web.
The primary function of a web server is to store, process, and deliver web pages to clients.
Client-server communication occurs through the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).
Pages delivered are most frequently HTML documents, which may include images, style
sheets, and scripts in addition to the text content.
Multiple web servers may be used for a high-traffic website, splitting traffic between mul-
tiple physical machines.
A user agent, commonly a web browser or web crawler, initiates communication by re-
questing a specific resource using HTTP, and the server responds with the content of that
resource or an error message if unable to do so. The resource is typically a real file on
the server's storage, or the result of a program. But this is not always the case and can
actually be many other things.
Although its primary function is to serve content, HTTP also enables clients to send
data. This feature is used for submitting web forms, including the uploading of files.

Chapter II
General rules
• Your program must not crash under any circumstances (even if it runs out of mem-
ory) or terminate unexpectedly.
If this occurs, your project will be considered non-functional and your grade will
be 0.
• You must submit a Makefile that compiles your source files. It must not perform
unnecessary relinking.
• Your Makefile must at least contain the rules:
$(NAME), all, clean, fclean and re.
• Compile your code with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
• Your code must comply with the C++ 98 standard and should still compile when
adding the flag -std=c++98.
• Make sure to leverage as many C++ features as possible (e.g., choose <cstring>
over <string.h>). You are allowed to use C functions, but always prefer their C++
versions if possible.
• Any external library and Boost libraries are forbidden.

Chapter III
Mandatory part
Program name webserv
Turn in files Makefile, *.{h, hpp}, *.cpp, *.tpp, *.ipp,
configuration files
Makefile NAME, all, clean, fclean, re
Arguments [A configuration file]
External functs. All functionality must be implemented in C++ 98.
execve, pipe, strerror, gai_strerror, errno, dup,
dup2, fork, socketpair, htons, htonl, ntohs, ntohl,
select, poll, epoll (epoll_create, epoll_ctl,
epoll_wait), kqueue (kqueue, kevent), socket,
accept, listen, send, recv, chdir, bind, connect,
getaddrinfo, freeaddrinfo, setsockopt, getsockname,
getprotobyname, fcntl, close, read, write, waitpid,
kill, signal, access, stat, open, opendir, readdir
and closedir.
Libft authorized n/a
Description An HTTP server in C++ 98

You must write an HTTP server in C++ 98.
Your executable should be executed as follows:
./webserv [configuration file]

Even though poll() is mentioned in the subject and evaluation sheet,
you can use any equivalent function such as select(), kqueue(), or
epoll().

Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
Please read the RFCs defining the HTTP protocol, and perform tests
with telnet and NGINX before starting this project.
Although you are not required to implement the entire RFCs, reading
it will help you develop the required features.
The HTTP 1.0 is suggested as a reference point, but not enforced.

Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
III.1 Requirements
• Your program must use a configuration file, provided as an argument on the com-
mand line, or available in a default path.
• You cannot execve another web server.
• Your server must remain non-blocking at all times and properly handle client dis-
connections when necessary.
• It must be non-blocking and use only 1 poll() (or equivalent) for all the I/O
operations between the clients and the server (listen included).
• poll() (or equivalent) must monitor both reading and writing simultaneously.
• You must never do a read or a write operation without going through poll() (or
equivalent).
• Checking the value of errno to adjust the server behaviour is strictly forbidden
after performing a read or write operation.
• You are not required to use poll() (or equivalent) before read() to retrieve your
configuration file.
Because you have to use non-blocking file descriptors, it is
possible to use read/recv or write/send functions with no poll()
(or equivalent), and your server wouldn't be blocking.
But it would consume more system resources.
Thus, if you attempt to read/recv or write/send on any file
descriptor without using poll() (or equivalent), your grade will
be 0.
• When using poll() or any equivalent call, you can use every associated macro or
helper function (e.g., FD_SET for select()).
• A request to your server should never hang indefinitely.
• Your server must be compatible with standard web browsers of your choice.
• NGINX may be used to compare headers and answer behaviours (pay attention to
differences between HTTP versions).
• Your HTTP response status codes must be accurate.
• Your server must have default error pages if none are provided.
• You can't use fork for anything other than CGI (like PHP, or Python, and so forth).
• You must be able to serve a fully static website.
• Clients must be able to upload files.
• You need at least the GET, POST, and DELETE methods.
• Stress test your server to ensure it remains available at all times.
• Your server must be able to listen to multiple ports to deliver different content (see
Configuration file).
We deliberately chose to offer only a subset of the HTTP RFC. In this
context, the virtual host feature is considered out of scope. But
you are allowed to implement it if you want.

Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
III.2 For MacOS only
Since macOS handles write() differently from other Unix-based OSes,
you are allowed to use fcntl().
You must use file descriptors in non-blocking mode to achieve
behaviour similar to that of other Unix OSes.
However, you are allowed to use fcntl() only with the following
flags:
F_SETFL, O_NONBLOCK and, FD_CLOEXEC.
Any other flag is forbidden.

III.3 Configuration file
You can take inspiration from the 'server' section of the NGINX
configuration file.
In the configuration file, you should be able to:
• Define all the interface:port pairs on which your server will listen to (defining mul-
tiple websites served by your program).
• Set up default error pages.
• Set the maximum allowed size for client request bodies.
• Specify rules or configurations on a URL/route (no regex required here), for a
website, among the following:
◦ List of accepted HTTP methods for the route.
◦ HTTP redirection.
◦ Directory where the requested file should be located (e.g., if URL /kapouet
is rooted to /tmp/www, URL /kapouet/pouic/toto/pouet will search for
/tmp/www/pouic/toto/pouet).
◦ Enabling or disabling directory listing.
◦ Default file to serve when the requested resource is a directory.
◦ Uploading files from the clients to the server is authorized, and storage location
is provided.
◦ Execution of CGI, based on file extension (for example .php). Here are some
specific remarks regarding CGIs:
∗ Do you wonder what a CGI is?
∗ Have a careful look at the environment variables involved in the web
server-CGI communication. The full request and arguments provided by
the client must be available to the CGI.
∗ Just remember that, for chunked requests, your server needs to un-chunk
them, the CGI will expect EOF as the end of the body.
∗ The same applies to the output of the CGI. If no content_length is
returned from the CGI, EOF will mark the end of the returned data.
∗ The CGI should be run in the correct directory for relative path file access.
∗ Your server should support at least one CGI (php-CGI, Python, and so
forth).

You must provide configuration files and default files to test and demonstrate that
every feature works during the evaluation.
You can have other rules or configuration information in your file (e.g., a server name
for a website if you plan to implement virtual hosts).
If you have a question about a specific behaviour, you can compare
your program's behaviour with NGINX's.
We have provided a small tester. Using it is not mandatory if
everything works fine with your browser and tests, but it can help
you find and fix bugs.
Resilience is key. Your server must remain operational at all times.
Do not test with only one program. Write your tests in a more
suitable language, such as Python or Golang, among others, even
in C or C++ if you prefer.

Chapter IV
Bonus part
Here are some additional features you can implement:
• Support cookies and session management (provide simple examples).
• Handle multiple CGI types.
The bonus part will only be assessed if the mandatory part is fully
completed without issues. If you fail to meet all the mandatory
requirements, your bonus part will not be evaluated.

